---
layout: post
title: QBI
---
 
 
The Section 199A deduction allows business owners to deduct up to 20% of their qualified business income (QBI) from their taxes. This deduction can significantly reduce the tax burden for many businesses. However, there are limitations and phase-outs based on income levels and the type of business.

The Section 199A deduction has **several limitations**:  

1. Income Thresholds: The deduction is phased out for taxpayers with higher incomes. These thresholds are indexed for inflation.
   - The income thresholds for the Section 199A deduction phase-out in **2024** are:

    - Joint Filers:

       - Lower Threshold: $383,900   
       - Higher Threshold: $483,900

    - Single Filers:
        - Lower Threshold: $191,950
        - Higher Threshold: $241,950

> Important Note: These thresholds apply to taxable income, which is calculated after considering deductions and credits (excluding the Section 199A deduction itself).  
{: .block-warning }

2. Specified Service Trades or Businesses (SSTBs): The deduction is limited for certain service businesses like accounting, law, and consulting.  

   - The primary criterion for determining if a business is a Specified Service Trade or Business (SSTB) is that its principal asset is the reputation or skill of one or more of its employees or owners.  

   - This means that the success of the business heavily relies on the expertise and reputation of the individuals involved, rather than tangible assets like equipment or inventory.  

   - Key Considerations:

       - Intangible Assets: The focus is on intangible assets like knowledge, experience, and client relationships.   

        - Employee/Owner Skills: The skills and reputation of the individuals working within the business are crucial to its success.  

   - Examples:

       - A law firm's success often hinges on the reputation and expertise of its lawyers.   
       - A consulting firm's value lies in the knowledge and experience of its consultants.  
       - A medical practice relies heavily on the skills and reputation of its doctors and medical staff.   

3. Wage and Property Limitations: The deduction is further limited by the amount of wages paid to employees and the cost of qualified business property.  

   - Wage Limitation: The deduction is limited to the greater of:

       - 50% of the W-2 wages paid by the business.
       - 25% of the W-2 wages plus 2.5% of the unadjusted basis of qualified property.

   - Qualified Property: This generally includes tangible property subject to depreciation (like machinery and equipment).  

   - In simpler terms: The deduction is capped by how much you pay your employees (wages) and how much you've invested in business property. This encourages businesses to invest in their workforce and the U.S. economy.   
