---
title: AGI vs MAGI
layout: post
---

- The *Adjusted Gross Income* (AGI) is your income after certain allowable deductions. 
- The *Modified-AGI* (MAGI) adjusts the AGI by adding back certain excluded or deducted income, generally to determine eligibility for specific tax programs or benefits.
<br>
- **Adjusted Gross Income (AGI)** = gross income minus specific deductions
     - Gross income includes wages, dividends, capital gains, business income, and other sources of income. 
     - Deductions that reduce gross income to AGI include contributions to: traditional IRAs, student loan interest, tuition and fees, alimony paid (for divorces before 2019), etc.
     - AGI is used to determine eligibility for other deductions and credits, including itemized deductions and credits like the Child Tax Credit.
     - AGI deductions are commonly referred to as "above-the-line" deductions. 
<br>
- **Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI)** = AGI then adds back certain deductions or exclusions.
     - The specific items added back vary depending on the applied tax benefit. 
     - For example, MAGI is used to determine eligibility for Roth IRA contributions, education credits, and certain healthcare-related programs (like premium tax credits). Typical items added back to AGI to calculate MAGI include: 
     - Tax-exempt interest income (like interest from municipal bonds), Foreign earned income exclusion, The student loan interest deduction (for some tax benefits) MAGI is essentially AGI adjusted further for specific tax rules.
