---
title: 1099-Non-Employee Compensation
layout: post
---

<script> function buttonIrsForms() { window.open("https://mcc-us.github.io/ea/others/view.f1099nec"); } </script>
- <button onclick="buttonIrsForms()">1099-NEC Instructions</button>


**Form 1099-NEC** (Non-employee Compensation): used to report payments to independent contractors, freelancers, or non-employees for services rendered. 

- **Form 1099-NEC** is used to report payments of **$600 or more** made during the tax year.
- Businesses use this form to report **non-employee compensation** to the IRS and to the worker.

1. Company sends form to IRS and contractor.

2. What is included? - fees, commissions, prizes, awards, 'any compensation for services.'

3. Should Be Filed by **January 31**.

4. **Does the Worker Pay Taxes?**
   - Yes. Workers who receive a **1099-NEC** then must file 1040-SE. Payroll tax = (SS tax = 2.9%) + (Medicare = 12.4%) = 15.3%. 
   - NOTE: limit of Medicare = $160,200 in 2023
   - OASDI: "Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance" program.

- **Example**:
- A business hires an independent web designer to create a website and pays them $5,000 for the work. Since the web designer is not an employee, the business will issue them a **Form 1099-NEC** to report the payment and also submit a copy to the IRS.

- **W-2 vs. 1099-NEC**
- **Form W-2 given to employees**, Social Security/Medicare taxes withheld.
- **Form 1099-NEC for non-employees**, NO pyroll taxes withheld. Req. contractor to file 1040-SE and Schedule C.

- **Information Included on Form 1099-NEC**:
- **Payer's Information**: Name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the business that made the payment.
- **Recipient's Information**: Name, address, and Social Security Number (or TIN) of the person who received the payment.
- **Payment Amount**: The amount of compensation paid during the year.

- **When Not to Issue a 1099-NEC**:
- Payments made to a corporation generally do not require a **1099-NEC**.
- Payments for personal services that are **not related to a business** (e.g., hiring someone to mow your lawn as an individual) don’t require a 1099-NEC either.
